---
title: gSchool - Week 8
date: 2013-10-28 15:17 UTC
tags:
---

<p>IdeaBox was a cool project. I learned I wasn't awful at utilizing bootstrap and making things happen with css. I'd still like to be more comfortable create the Ruby aspects but I felt there was definitely some progress being made. I still feel my Ruby skills aren't up to where they need to be, especially when I'm working alone. I come to roadblocks/writers blocks and can't seem to move past them until I get assistance. I'd really love to get over this learning curve and onto the next one!</p>
<p>Web applications are fantastic! I love being able to see and touch what I've created. It makes for a more visual experience which in turns makes me feel like I'm accomplishing more (regardless of if I am or not). Sinatra was an interesting introduction to web apps. I'm still a little confused as to its full use and potential. Why wouldn't some one use Rails instead?</p>
<p>I don't feel that I was able to test my application as well as I would have liked. I feel the testing for web apps is still a little confusing to me. I'd love to be able to break down my tests into the sections suggested (unit/controller/views) however I seem to only be gravitating towards the unit tests and then some of the views.</p>
<p>If I could go back and start the project all over again I would first focus on many different aspects of testing it thoroughly. I'd also would have liked to have users & logins but feel that should have been the first feature to start with.</p>
<p>Code Retreat on friday was really interesting for a few reasons. I really liked the force pair programming, I had some interactions with people I hadn't pair with previously which were really exciting. The one thing I didn't really like was that we continued to do the same practices over and over. I really feel it should have been setup in such a way that you do a practice (ie: robot) and then switch partners and put the constraints on it. Then the next time you switch partners you would tackle a new practice (ie: beer) and then repeat. Doing the two practices all day, while each time was a little different, got very tiring. I think the only thing I'd suggest for the next Code Retreat is to make sure we have wifi :)</p>
