---
title: gSchool - week 5
date: 2013-10-18 15:03 UTC
tags:
---

<p>We started working with Sinatra this week. Sinatra is a simplified smaller type of Rails framework. This was also our first introduction to building a web application. I find my self having much bigger or maybe just perceived as bigger wins when I get something working. I think this is partly due to me being able to actually see a change happening after I make it. This has also refocused me on the reasons why I decided to come to gSchool. I love doing this stuff. While there are many bumps and bruises that happen along the way of this learning process I am accepting that everyone learns at different paces and that I am in fact learning, so overall I'm happy!</p>
<p>Last week during our focus week was a great time for me to go in and explore the code I had been writing and focusing on what each aspect is doing. I feel it started to solidify my decisions on what I was doing with me code and getting me closer to a point of being comfortable writing it myself. While I don't feel like I'm currently there yet, I feel like I can almost see a tiny spec of light at the end of the tunnel. This light at the end of the tunnel is me being able to code up things myself! I don't believe I've strayed from what I focused on during focus week because the content I was focusing on was being able to do things, I feel like I've been doing things so I think overall it was a very good thing to take that week and focus on the basics.</p>
<p>Working on an individual project is still a bit of a challenge for me. While I possibly could have gotten to the point I am currently at now in IdeaBox by working 100% alone, I think it would have taken me substantially longer. Having a small group to bounce ideas off of and talk through issues tends to be cutting my "stuck" time dramatically down. So while I don't think I'm fully there doing this alone I feel like working in these small teams is really helping me get to that point.</p>
<p>So next week we have our first assessment, while this is incredibly terrifying, its also welcoming. I really like having some one smarter than me notice where my areas of focus need to be and helping me achieve those. I'm interested to see what happens, again like I said, coding by myself is still very touchy and my brain doesn't seem to think up the same ideas in the way that I am while working with a partner so I'd like to see how far along I get with the assessment. Either way I'm here to learn as much as possible and this will give me a good opportunity to see really where I'm at in regards to where they think I should be at, so I'm excited for that</p>
<p>I have to stay I'm excited for the assessment but I'm also a little nervous about the outcome. I'm pretty hard on myself and so if I come in below where they are expecting me to be it is going to be devastating. I've been working my butt off here, show up on time, stay later than anyone else and really focus on learning a good foundation.</p>
<p>Over the past few weeks I've placed myself in the "needs focus" or "progressive" group of students. I quickly learned that the "needs focus" seemed a bit too slow for me as I felt when the talks or group sessions were happening I was understanding the content. But again felt once we got out of the group setting and were told to work on a problem/exercise by ourself I didn't seem to get as far as I would have hoped. I was told by the teacher to join the "progressive" group to see if that was more my speed and to speed things up a bit. I did that for majority of the focus week and while it seemed very useful I still felt while we were in the group setting I was understanding things and making things happen. But then again when we are set on our own it slowed down substantially. While I understand that is part of the learning process it is still hard to see that happen, especially while seeing people who are fully understanding and flying ahead.</p>
<p>This week I've paired a couple times with a few people from the "advanced" group and while I felt absolutely like the worst drummer in the band, it felt nice pushing myself. I do feel that it may seem like I'm a burden to them because I think they could probably go much faster, so it becomes harder for me to ask one of them to pair. However it was a really good experience being able to see that they aren't that far ahead of me in their understanding of the code, but for whatever reason they are able to produce the code individually at a faster pace than where I'm currently at. Once I work with one of them I feel like I am able to contribute a thing here and there.</p>
<p>We also got assigned our mentors this week. Really excited to see how that goes. I've never been a mentee and this is my mentors first time as well so I'm really excited to see what happens in the next few weeks. My mentor seems like a really nice guy working out of Pivotal Labs here in Galvanize so it should be nice being able to sit face to face and pair program with him. Hopefully I can not only learn a lot out of this experience but also make a nice connection for the long term as well.</p>
